OK minion OK all right, so uh
the recording has a started.
Thank you very much for letting
me do that and first off you
know, I want to say thank you
very much for taking the time
out to complete the survey as
well as taking the time to meet
with me here today.
We we recognize that your time
is valuable and we we do take
this feedback very seriously. So
we do definitely appreciate that
a lot and then for the for the
format of the call. I was
thinking that first I'll spend
some time, introducing my.
Sing a little bit of history as
to what I've done and what I do
now, and then I was wondering if
you could do the same and then
and then I had just a couple
additional questions. I want to
run by you and then I was
thinking, we could kind of focus
on the we could do kind of a
deep dive on the particular
feedback, which have provided
does that Sound Alright.
Sure, alright great, so my name
is Syed Hashemi. I'm a senior
program manager working on
Visual Studio for Mac and the
areas that I focus on ourASP.net
core.net core and Azure
functions. I've been working at
Microsoft. Even half years
working with Visual Studio for
Mac for about one year and
before that. I was working on
Visual Studio and I was working
on theASP.net team, so yeah,
that's a bit of background on
myself and what I do and what
I've kind of done over the
course of the past few years.
And uh and I'm I'm I'm currently
located in Florida and I work
from home up before when I was
working on the Visual Studio
team. I was working out of the
Redmond Office. There could you
tell me a little bit about
yourself and the organization
that you work at and what types?
What types of apps you're
developing with Visual Studio
for Mac. The interesting part is
my full time day job is, I
write PHP so visual studio for
Mac is actually only like
everything for me because we use
darker at workand.net core and
stuff like that in other day.
Department we only focus on PHP
so, so this. This is completely
happy thing for me using this
and yeah, so learning things
about different languages and
setups and contain arising stuff
and. So it's not like Uh, I
in a position where I said,
Don't use this tool every day
for 8 hours or so and a half or
whatnot. It's more for interest
purposes. Sure, not understand
so one of the programs. I'm
coming from this PHP storm by
Jetbrains. To make light and
visuals to you kind of thing for
C Sharp and their tools that
doesn't features that I liked
and didn't why I completed the
survey and told you about it,
but My time II write a
PHP back end for like a booking
system so that's what I spend my
time on and then we're container
rising some of the stuff some of
it isusing.net core some of it
is using node typescript so.
Different balls that that
run around in in my
business, so but so that's
basically what I do.
Could you could you tell me a
little bit about this side
project or side projects that
you're working on right now with
Visual Studio for Mac right now,
it's like in system so it back
in part for signing up a user
and. Particularly big or
anything, it's mostly yeah, I
think it's like. Yeah, just like
how you would sign into Facebook
or LinkedIn or something. I'm
sitting and doing my own thing
for that. As soon so
yeah, I had I've not. I'm not
really developing an app yet.
I'm only like doing like small
parts that might someday become
a nap but I see so, so that's
not really something super
concrete in. Let's say my case,
it's more like a hobby, Ingen
and playing around and and
learning like C Sharp and
grabbing it. I have a bachelor
degrees as a software engineer.
So I've been using C sharp
before like at you.
But it's by the wild and I
actually sometimes miss it
so yeah.
OK, so when you when you
previously used the C Sharp were
you using visual studio for
Windows at that time or or
something else for that many
years ago. That's like 2010,
2011 or something I used it
last. But I really enjoyed like
where it's gotten to now and I
think one of the best ideas.
I've worked with this visual
studio for Mac so that's really
nice OK. That's fantastic to
hear. Thank you very much.
But but yeah, I sometimes yeah,
you want to give feedback when
you think something is missing
or something could be better in
my particular case. I think
someone something was missing.
So yeah, that's why I did it so
it's OK so.
But it's it's not like this big
thing that I have have going
right now, it's more like
interested in learning it
because there's a lot of
openings. Also, if you ever
wanna in my position get another
job or something having
diversity. Knowing more
frameworks, a is a good thing.
So yeah, no of course, yeah,
right OK. All right well. That's
great OK. So it sounds like from
the feedback that you provided
that the big kind of missing
support. There is basically
database related is that right?
Yeah. To be more precise it's a
It's missing like so if you work
with let's say my sequel, or
Postgres for that for the matter
of those 2. You can get like a
client and log in and see like
the tables and what?
Uh is actually happening. I know
if you use the framework you
rely on that, creating this sort
of stuff for you, but sometimes
it's nice to be able to dive
down and say OK? What did this
tool. I'm using actually do in
like database schema wise.
Any place I can optimize is
there something I'm not happy
about it doing or do I just need
to delete Aurora Runner sequel.
Injecting script and and see
what's inside and how stuff
stuff is behaving right now
understand. It's just a building
client, for MSSQL.
Uh because that's like a next
week and run Ms SQL, but
we can't actually see inside it.
I need an external program for
that diva, which is one of
them another. But one thing that
would be super nice is that it
was integrated into the IDE
Visual Studio for Mac Yeah. No,
you're absolutely right. So so
currently in currently in Visual
Studio for Mac. We don't have
the ability to kind of interact
with. And you're not the first
person to to ask about this so
that's definitely on our radar.
We were kind of. We're kind of
working on some other kind of
more fundamental stuff right
now, but we are going to circle
back to that at some point but
so you know you are correct.
Use you know, some sort of a
external tool for for SQL
server? What the external tool
are you using right now.
OK, I'm not familiar with that
tool I learned I learned it
yesterday. So I can get you OK.
Otherwise, I will probably since
when I write stuff in Visual
Studio for Mac I use Ms SQL.
I would probably go with
something like data grip
otherwise from jetbrains that
that would probably be my
first choice of database
database looking tool so.
Is a diva or DB Eva
so diva? Yeah. I think it's
pronounced the Beaver?
Uh so that would be what what I
would use TV words free so yeah,
but one of these 2 tools. I
would probably use for it since
it doesn't seem like Microsoft
has its own form at the moment I
see OK? Yeah.
D be very Alex looks pretty
interesting there. There is a
there is a tool that you can use
that's provided by Microsoft as
well. Let's called Azure Data
Studio and you can install that
on your Mac and then connect to
SQL server databases and then
kind of inspect and.
But yeah, these other tools you
know they seem like they should
work pretty well, too, so
whichever one works for you is
good. I just wanted to make sure
that you are aware of that,
Azure Data Studio and in the
past. It was called SQL
Operations Studio so if you take
a look for it. You might find
some references to SQL
operation. That's now called
Azure Data Studio. So yeah, so
that might be helpful to you.
But yeah, and it has a client,
for Microsoft. They're not
Microsoft. Yes yes that's
correct, yeah, exactly so that's
the tool that is provided by
Microsoft. Back for kind of
interacting with the SQL server
databases and it also works for
SQL, Azure database, so that if
you have any that are there OK
so are you using say it sounds
like you're using the entity
framework migrations for the
kind of? Is that is that correct
uh? I go model first? I would
say that called Yeah II ride my
objects and stuff, and then I
have a framework create the
database schema for me, OK
gotcha OK. I think that I think
we were. As could first yes code
for Yeah, right OK got it OK, so
you basically kind of author
your model using the kind of
entity framework and then you
run the migrations to kind of
update the database exactly
guided OK gotcha OK and then for
the side projects that you're
developing in. Uh in Visual
Studio for Mac or those uh are
those web API projects. Just and
then at some point I'm going to
learn summer in to put it on
iPhone and Android's when I get
far enough if I could far enough
with it so yeah.
IPhone and Android OK alright
well. That's great OK, so um.
And I think they're going to be
hosted on Google Cloud at the
moment, OK gotcha OK. If you're
interested in knowing. I know
that that's interesting, yeah
right? What made you choose
Google Cloud. I like that, too,
but it is set up.
Use it for other things also so
that because I know I can hosted
on Azure as well right.
Yes, that's correct so that's
basically but but I use Google
Cloud for other things, and I
don't want to host like 2 places
sure now that makes sense OK
gotcha OK and then when you're
running in how do you? How do
you take care API project and
then publish that to Google
Cloud, which which the kind of?
Hello there, yeah, because
that's I actually run into a
small problem where I'm probably
need to go on a Windows machine
to get their extension and then
publish it. Can I publish
directly from visual studio from
activation Azure? Yes, yeah, you
can do that yet?
Might actually change things up
about my first decision to use
Google cloud exclusively because
it would work more seemingly for
me actually haven't thought
about that prefer before so
gotcha OK? Well, that makes
sense. Had to go down that
route sorry my daughter is kind
of making some noise over here.
It's alright. It comes through
on the audio here. Not sure
what's happening so anyways,
yeah, so if you decide to go
down that route.
Problems or questions definitely
please. Do let me know so I can
work with you and kind of fix
those issues, and OK, so as you
as you are kind of developing
your API project. Did you run
into any issues? Where you
notice any kind of missing
functionality that you are kind
of used to on windows outside
of. A database related problems
no actually not not yet.
Uh II think it's a good
package and and the way I
can use to almost everything
from one idea is super nice
so actually know other than I'm
curious and want.
I could also just say yeah, I
don't need to do this because
the entity framework will take
care of it for me. I don't know
if that's like half a decision
why it's not there yet. If you
understand what I mean? Could
you could you say that one more
time? Yeah, like?
Because the Institute framework
allows you just to like rely on
a code first approach in my
instance, where I actually don't
have to look into like the
database. But it's still nice
being able to so yes, yes of
course, so I'm like.
Decision half of the decision.
Why does not like a database
tool yet because you rely on the
Instagram work anyways and
shouldn't ever have to need to
log into the database. Yeah,
right so yes, I can try to
address that. So right now, what
we're trying to focus on is to
make sure that we have just kind
of a good kind of foundation for
writing code and
fordeveloping.net core
applications and and you might
not have run into any see.
For yourself, but but but we do
have we have received a lot of
feedback that the experience
isn't quite up to car and we
have a lot of areas that we need
to improve so I'll give you I'll
give you some insights on the
kind of areas that were going to
be focused on in the short term
before before getting to the
database of. So right now my our
editors. We receive some
feedback that the editors are
not quite good enough
specifically let's say if you
have, like, some some some
larger files. The editor, the
performance kind of grades a bit
and. It is a It's not quite as
stable as the experience in
Visual Studio for windows, So
what we're trying to do is where
we're basically trying to take
the editors that we have in
Visual Studio for windows and
then integrate those individual
studio for Mac and then that'll
give us the ability to load and
work. All types of different
files, including very large
ones, and then it also will
improve the performance and
reliability and instability of
the application itself. And
we've also we've also received
some feedback that the debugger
experience is not quite leading.
Stations so those end and then
there's also some other kind of
additional areas like you know
for example, when you create a
project. We don't have all the
same templates and options that
are available on windows. So
those are some things that we
need to address and then there's
also visual. This has
scaffolding forASP.net core
applications. We don't have
those types of features here
yet, and visual studio for Mac
so. So we're trying to do is so
there were trying to take one
step at a time basically so one.
We want to make sure that you
have a good experience
developing an application
without it weighs.
And see how long does it take on
my the interesting thing about
it is I did on a 2017 MacBook
like the smallest one they have
and it it was about the same
speed on that one so I found
that. Is something making it
unnecessary slow to load it was
a bit slow on the small night
but interesting OK not the
baseline model like the model
above it and it's considering
how fast my machine is.
Chill studio for Mac I would not
say super slow but it's slow to
startup not like to use it but
very slow at starting how long
does it take to start II think I
would say 20 seconds 30 seconds
something 2030 seconds OK? Let
me let me?
In real quick, I get my stop
watch for opened up here real
quick. I'm gonna try this and
see how long does it take on my
the interesting thing about it
is? I did on a 2017 MacBook like
the smallest one they have and
it it was about the same.
One so I found that.
Is something making it
unnecessary slow to load it was
a bit slow on the small neck?
But the interesting OK not the
baseline model like the model
above it and it's considering
how fast my machine is.
Chill studio for Mac I would not
say super slow but it's slow to
startup not like to use it but
very slow at starting how long
does it take to start II think I
would say 20 seconds 30 seconds
or something 2030 seconds OK?
Let me let me.
In real quick to get my stop
watch for opened up here real
quick. I'm gonna try this and
see how long does it take on my
the interesting thing about it
is? I did on a 2017 MacBook like
the smallest one they have and
it it was about the same.
One so I found that.
Is something making it
unnecessary slow to load it was
a bit slow on the small Mac?
But the interesting OK? I did I
did experience this and like if
you wanted, some other feedback
it, yeah, yeah right.
Um it, it loaded up on my
machine in about 10 seconds. I
wonder could you could you share
your screen and we could take a
look at take a look at this
start-up issue that would be
pretty hard at the moment since
I'm on my phone on your phone.
OK, I understand and I'm.
Oh, OK and you're having dinner
soon OK, yeah, no problem OK, so
one thing, but I could time
start with myself and send you
liking email or something.
Yeah, um what we can do is if
you could try it at some point
you know. Whenever you have
time, obviously do, do a stop
watch and if it's taken you know
if it continues to take 20 or 30
seconds. I wonder I wonder if
you could send me the law.
From Visual Studio for Mac and
let me. Let me actually I'll
share my oh you're on your
phone, OK, So what you can do is
the log files are available in
Visual Studio for Mac. If you go
to the help menu and then say
open log directory and then you
could zip up those.
And email them to me that would
be pretty helpful. So I can take
a look through the log files and
then maybe there, some kind of
exceptions being thrown on
startup so I can take a closer
look at that and then go from
there, OK alright So what about
the besides let's say startup
and besides startup have you.
Things that could be improved or
or maybe we can add something to
the experience to kind of make
you a little bit more.
Productive me actually not at
the moment I think at least not
while while I'm standing here.
So not not that much actually
it's I only just remembered that
I thought it took quite awhile
actually to get it started.
Yeah, no, I understand
OK, I guess.
So so no actually II enjoyed
very much. I wish my my real
work, sometimes use. This yeah,
right now. I got you OK. So it
sounds like the 2 biggest things
that you are kind of impacted by
are the lack.
Database tooling and then also
you know the kind of start up on
your side is a little bit longer
than than what you would like
alright, so it makes sense OK
and you know, yeah, go ahead
just just actually I think.
Got it OK that makes sense OK
alright so one thing I wanted to
let you know about was you know
now that we're kind of connected
an email. If you run into any
now that we're connected an
email. If you run into any
problems or any kind of issues.
You definitely know feel free to
reach out to me and I'll try to
work. Love those issues, and
problems and um, yeah, I think I
think I've kind of ask the all
the questions that I wanted to
so yeah, so I think I want to.
Thank you again for taking your
time out to complete the survey
and then also meet with me here
today. Appreciate it and yeah,
let me just reiterate the point
that I just said. You know about
a minute back was you know
you've got my email address, so
if you run into any problems or
have any questions. You know,
don't hesitate to to send me an
email and I'll try to work
through whatever issues you got
going on there and then even if
it's not my area. I'll try to
find somebody. Come on those
things and you know, I want you
to have a good kind of
experience working with Visual
Studio for Mac so I'm always
here to assist you in whatever
ways are needed, and we go from
there. So yeah, you know. Thank
you very much for for meeting
meeting me here today and.
Say, a good rest your day and a
good weekend, as well. Yeah, you
too. Thank you. Thank you very
much bye bye bye bye.